frontend/README.md, before:

# xpanel Frontend

Frontend application for xpanel built with React, TypeScript, and Vite.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Router**: TanStack Router
- **UI Library**: Material-UI (MUI)
- **Testing**: Vitest + React Testing Library
- **Component Development**: Storybook

## Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── components/          # Reusable components
│   │   └── Button/
│   │       ├── Button.tsx
│   │       ├── Button.stories.tsx
│   │       ├── Button.test.tsx
│   │       └── index.ts
│   ├── pages/               # Page components
│   │   ├── HomePage.tsx
│   │   ├── UsersPage.tsx
│   │   └── NotFoundPage.tsx
│   ├── services/            # API services
│   │   └── api.ts
│   ├── theme/               # MUI theme configuration
│   │   └── theme.ts
│   ├── test/                # Test setup
│   │   └── setup.ts
│   ├── App.tsx              # Root component
│   ├── main.tsx             # Entry point
│   └── router.tsx           # Router configuration
├── .storybook/              # Storybook configuration
├── public/                  # Static assets
├── .env.example             # Environment variables example
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── vite.config.ts
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ or higher
- npm or yarn

## Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd xpanel/frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your API endpoint
   ```

4. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Available Scripts

### Development

```bash
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build            # Build for production
npm run preview          # Preview production build
npm run lint             # Run ESLint
```

### Testing

```bash
npm run test             # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:ui          # Run tests with UI
npm run test:coverage    # Run tests with coverage report
```

### Storybook

```bash
npm run storybook        # Start Storybook dev server
npm run build-storybook  # Build Storybook for production
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable            | Description                | Default                          |
|---------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| VITE_API_BASE_URL   | Backend API base URL       | http://localhost:8080/api/v1     |

## Development Guidelines

### Component Structure

All components should follow this structure:

```
ComponentName/
├── ComponentName.tsx          # Component implementation
├── ComponentName.stories.tsx  # Storybook stories
├── ComponentName.test.tsx     # Component tests
└── index.ts                   # Barrel export
```

### React Functional Components

All components **must** use the `React.FC` type:

```typescript
import React from 'react';

interface MyComponentProps {
  title: string;
  onClick?: () => void;
}

const MyComponent: React.FC<MyComponentProps> = ({ title, onClick }) => {
  return (
    <div onClick={onClick}>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```

### Writing Tests

Use Vitest and React Testing Library for testing:

```typescript
import { describe, it, expect, vi } from 'vitest';
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event';
import MyComponent from './MyComponent';

describe('MyComponent', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    render(<MyComponent title="Test" />);
    expect(screen.getByText('Test')).toBeInTheDocument();
  });

  it('handles click events', async () => {
    const handleClick = vi.fn();
    render(<MyComponent title="Test" onClick={handleClick} />);

    await userEvent.click(screen.getByText('Test'));
    expect(handleClick).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
  });
});
```

### Writing Storybook Stories

Create stories for each component:

```typescript
import type { Meta, StoryObj } from '@storybook/react';
import MyComponent from './MyComponent';

const meta: Meta<typeof MyComponent> = {
  title: 'Components/MyComponent',
  component: MyComponent,
  parameters: {
    layout: 'centered',
  },
  tags: ['autodocs'],
};

export default meta;
type Story = StoryObj<typeof MyComponent>;

export const Default: Story = {
  args: {
    title: 'Hello World',
  },
};
```

### API Service

All API calls should go through the `services/api.ts` module:

```typescript
import { getUsers, createUser } from './services/api';

// In your component
const users = await getUsers();
const newUser = await createUser({ username: 'john', email: 'john@example.com' });
```

### Routing

Use TanStack Router for navigation:

```typescript
import { Link } from '@tanstack/react-router';

// In your component
<Link to="/users">Go to Users</Link>
```

## Material-UI (MUI) Usage

### Theme

The application uses a custom MUI theme defined in `src/theme/theme.ts`. All components automatically have access to the theme through the ThemeProvider.

### Using MUI Components

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import { Button, Box, Typography } from '@mui/material';

const MyPage: React.FC = () => {
  return (
    <Box sx={{ p: 3 }}>
      <Typography variant="h4" gutterBottom>
        My Page
      </Typography>
      <Button variant="contained" color="primary">
        Click Me
      </Button>
    </Box>
  );
};

export default MyPage;
```

## Building for Production

```bash
# Build the application
npm run build

# Preview the production build
npm run preview
```

The build output will be in the `dist/` directory.

## Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Run tests with coverage
npm run test:coverage
```

### Test Coverage

Coverage reports are generated in the `coverage/` directory.

## Storybook

### Running Storybook

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Storybook will be available at `http://localhost:6006`

### Building Storybook

```bash
npm run build-storybook
```

The build output will be in the `storybook-static/` directory.

## Browser Support

- Chrome (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Edge (latest)

## License

Copyright © 2025 xpanel. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

refactor: configure Vite proxy for API requests
Move API base URL from environment variables to Vite proxy configuration
for better development experience and to avoid CORS issues.

Changes:
- Update vite.config.ts to add proxy configuration for /api/v1, /health, and /ready
- Update api.ts to use relative paths (/api/v1) instead of environment variable
- Update .env.example to reflect that proxy is used in development
- Update README.md with detailed explanation of proxy configuration

Benefits:
- No CORS issues in development
- Simpler configuration (no env vars needed for dev)
- Better separation between dev and production configs
- All API requests go through Vite dev server proxy to backend

frontend/README.md, after:

# xpanel Frontend

Frontend application for xpanel built with React, TypeScript, and Vite.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Router**: TanStack Router
- **UI Library**: Material-UI (MUI)
- **Testing**: Vitest + React Testing Library
- **Component Development**: Storybook

## Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── components/          # Reusable components
│   │   └── Button/
│   │       ├── Button.tsx
│   │       ├── Button.stories.tsx
│   │       ├── Button.test.tsx
│   │       └── index.ts
│   ├── pages/               # Page components
│   │   ├── HomePage.tsx
│   │   ├── UsersPage.tsx
│   │   └── NotFoundPage.tsx
│   ├── services/            # API services
│   │   └── api.ts
│   ├── theme/               # MUI theme configuration
│   │   └── theme.ts
│   ├── test/                # Test setup
│   │   └── setup.ts
│   ├── App.tsx              # Root component
│   ├── main.tsx             # Entry point
│   └── router.tsx           # Router configuration
├── .storybook/              # Storybook configuration
├── public/                  # Static assets
├── .env.example             # Environment variables example
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── vite.config.ts
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ or higher
- npm or yarn

## Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd xpanel/frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your API endpoint
   ```

4. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Available Scripts

### Development

```bash
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build            # Build for production
npm run preview          # Preview production build
npm run lint             # Run ESLint
```

### Testing

```bash
npm run test             # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:ui          # Run tests with UI
npm run test:coverage    # Run tests with coverage report
```

### Storybook

```bash
npm run storybook        # Start Storybook dev server
npm run build-storybook  # Build Storybook for production
```

## Environment Variables

### Development

In development mode, API requests are proxied through Vite's dev server. The proxy configuration in `vite.config.ts` forwards:
- `/api/v1/*` → `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/*`
- `/health` → `http://localhost:8080/health`
- `/ready` → `http://localhost:8080/ready`

No environment variables are required for development.

### Production

For production builds, you can optionally configure the API base URL:

| Variable            | Description                | Example                          |
|---------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| VITE_API_BASE_URL   | Backend API base URL       | https://api.example.com          |

If not set, the app will make requests to the same origin where it's hosted.

## Development Guidelines

### Component Structure

All components should follow this structure:

```
ComponentName/
├── ComponentName.tsx          # Component implementation
├── ComponentName.stories.tsx  # Storybook stories
├── ComponentName.test.tsx     # Component tests
└── index.ts                   # Barrel export
```

### React Functional Components

All components **must** use the `React.FC` type:

```typescript
import React from 'react';

interface MyComponentProps {
  title: string;
  onClick?: () => void;
}

const MyComponent: React.FC<MyComponentProps> = ({ title, onClick }) => {
  return (
    <div onClick={onClick}>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```

### Writing Tests

Use Vitest and React Testing Library for testing:

```typescript
import { describe, it, expect, vi } from 'vitest';
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event';
import MyComponent from './MyComponent';

describe('MyComponent', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    render(<MyComponent title="Test" />);
    expect(screen.getByText('Test')).toBeInTheDocument();
  });

  it('handles click events', async () => {
    const handleClick = vi.fn();
    render(<MyComponent title="Test" onClick={handleClick} />);

    await userEvent.click(screen.getByText('Test'));
    expect(handleClick).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
  });
});
```

### Writing Storybook Stories

Create stories for each component:

```typescript
import type { Meta, StoryObj } from '@storybook/react';
import MyComponent from './MyComponent';

const meta: Meta<typeof MyComponent> = {
  title: 'Components/MyComponent',
  component: MyComponent,
  parameters: {
    layout: 'centered',
  },
  tags: ['autodocs'],
};

export default meta;
type Story = StoryObj<typeof MyComponent>;

export const Default: Story = {
  args: {
    title: 'Hello World',
  },
};
```

### API Service

All API calls should go through the `services/api.ts` module:

```typescript
import { getUsers, createUser } from './services/api';

// In your component
const users = await getUsers();
const newUser = await createUser({ username: 'john', email: 'john@example.com' });
```

### Routing

Use TanStack Router for navigation:

```typescript
import { Link } from '@tanstack/react-router';

// In your component
<Link to="/users">Go to Users</Link>
```

## Material-UI (MUI) Usage

### Theme

The application uses a custom MUI theme defined in `src/theme/theme.ts`. All components automatically have access to the theme through the ThemeProvider.

### Using MUI Components

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import { Button, Box, Typography } from '@mui/material';

const MyPage: React.FC = () => {
  return (
    <Box sx={{ p: 3 }}>
      <Typography variant="h4" gutterBottom>
        My Page
      </Typography>
      <Button variant="contained" color="primary">
        Click Me
      </Button>
    </Box>
  );
};

export default MyPage;
```

## Building for Production

```bash
# Build the application
npm run build

# Preview the production build
npm run preview
```

The build output will be in the `dist/` directory.

## Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Run tests with coverage
npm run test:coverage
```

### Test Coverage

Coverage reports are generated in the `coverage/` directory.

## Storybook

### Running Storybook

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Storybook will be available at `http://localhost:6006`

### Building Storybook

```bash
npm run build-storybook
```

The build output will be in the `storybook-static/` directory.

## Browser Support

- Chrome (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Edge (latest)

## License

Copyright © 2025 xpanel. All rights reserved.
